  📍  

  📍  📍  📍 All right, very good. Okay, folks, so we're here. Let's talk about where we're at with everything here. So this has been really fun over the last couple of weeks. And we've got a lot of feedback, so here's how I'm gonna describe where we're at. So right now, this is just on my side here, so right now what's going on is the best practice first content.

I'm in the middle of editing the front end videos. I actually got towards, almost at the end of it, and realized that it actually would have been a lot better if we introduced how to write E2E tests against existing features. 

 It seems like the thing is everyone has a project that they're currently on and the assignments right now, like the assignments for back end and front end. Like these are quite evolved and not everyone really has time to go and do the assignments because I've been noticing very few devs are actually going and doing the front and back end assignments.

So what I want to do here is I want to make it a little bit easier on everyone so that you could just get some value out of what we're doing here now. What I would like to happen is I'd like you to be able to watch the front end videos, the back end videos on E2E testing. And I'd like you to just go and start applying this to your work tomorrow.

I don't want you to have to take this and then do the assignments here in the platform if you don't have time. Because there's some folks who are in here, they have plenty of time and they just want to go and do challenges. Some do not have that time at all. So I think what I'm going to do is I'm going to make some of this stuff optional, particularly the assignments around, yeah, doing all the DDD forum stuff like that we actually do building a project.

But I do want to give you clear next action steps for you to go. And if you're not going to apply this with DDD forum, the back end and front end E2E tests to actually carve out that infrastructure to create that four layer For those four layers of abstraction in order to make your E2E tests non flaky.

If you're not going to do that with DDD Form, I do want you to go and do that on a project, either on a new feature, or to perform what we call a characterization test. Characterization test. And what this is it's just writing a test after the fact. To characterize. What it is that our code is doing. So it just specifies, Hey yeah, like we have all this existing messy code and there's no tests for it, but we can actually test the entirety of the system, like a black box.

So imagining that we had the whole app here, and there's a feature in here that does stuff featuring here. It does stuff, all these little features in there that do things, we might not have the ability to actually go and, rewrite these from scratch. And that's not the point. You don't want to go and rewrite these things from scratch.

Instead, what we want to do is, can we just set up some test infra, right? This is your protocol driver. So if this was the front end, this would be you would use something like Cypress. That's terribly written. Or you would use something like Puppeteer. Whoops! I like Puppeteer.

And back here you'd also make sure you have your executable specification. So this would be your actual test code.

And then back here you would have your acceptance test.

So this is in Gherkin, so this is given. When. Then, and what we would do is, we'd say, okay, cool. We have the system, which is an input output. If I do create user, if I do add post or I do any sort of interaction with the front end, it's going to interact with the backend.

I want to make sure that I'm going to get the same result each time. What you would just do is have your 1, 2, 3 layers, and then you write that last layer here. You're going to test your feature. And if you know that this is good, and you could reliably do a feature here, end to end,

this is good, and this is going to give us the ability to move in a layer, and start messing around with stuff. So everything within these boundaries, we can then begin to carve out actual patterns with. So that's when we begin into actually structuring things out a little bit properly. However, when you're at the job, you could do one of two things.

You could either improve existing code or add new features. So this is, how we would go to improve. This is always the first step is, can we just make sure that we get the same inputs and outputs for whatever it is we're doing? That's the first step. And then we would move in and do more invasive testing and more invasive restructuring and refactoring to patterns.

It's also called distillation, and this is something that Eric Evans talks about in his DDD book. We would distill Some of the the domain language and stuff into the code properly. So just using proper patterns so you could do this as one thing, but then the other thing you could do is just, screw that.

We're just going to do a new feature properly, right? So you have the 1, 2, 3, and then you go and you just E2E test a new feature in your project. So realistically, these are the two things you should be able to do with the with the new assignments. So I'm just Changing things a little bit up here to make sure that it's as useful as possible, as soon as possible with the least amount of just you feeling like you have to do ceremonious assignments when maybe you actually have stuff that would be a lot more valuable for you to do, like actually implementing new features at work.

And what's great about this is you could just hook this up as long as you hook up this test infra, right? All this stuff over here,

as long as you set up your test infrastructure. You could always just use this on a new feature or an existing feature, but it's something that could be done independently at any time. So you take that new feature, improve an existing feature. And those really are just the two things that we ultimately do.

Those are the two main use cases as a developer improving features or adding new features, . Are there any questions on that so far with where I want us to go with the best practice first stuff? Or with the E2E testing in particular? Any comments?

Alright, cool.

What's coming up

Now let me actually explain a little bit more about the structure of what's coming up. Because it has adjusted a little bit. Based on this, here's actually how I see this going. So in code first, where we last left off was everyone was just building out a simple feature on the backend. Now, what I want to have happen here is I want us to actually go a little bit further with this. I want us to also, connect to the front end.

Connect front end to back end. So there's gonna have to be a demo and an assignment for that. With whatever tools you want.

Why am I doing this? Because, one, because we want to make sure we know how to build a feature from end to end. That's the whole point of information systems is to have a user be able to click something or interact with something on a screen and then a backend does state management and hopefully gives back time or enriches time.

That's the whole point of what we're doing here as developers in general. So we wanna make sure that we can do that before we move into best practice first. And it doesn't matter how you do this, you could do it as Meli as you want, whatever you could use React context for your global state management or screw using that.

You could use Redux or whatever. It's just about how you know you currently do things. I want to make sure that we hone in and get a reference on how you're currently doing things, so that we can really viscerally see how to improve what it is you're currently doing. So then, when we go into the next module you'll notice that in the course I've restructured things out a little bit here, where it's now we're talking about testing, right?

So all of those testing modules that I initially had when I first launched the course, we're putting those here. We're gonna just do the basic testing stuff. So this is like testing basics. Because, yeah, the next thing for us to do would be to do E2E tests. But we need to make sure that we do know how to write tests in general.

So all that stuff about emergent design getting started with tests, fizzbuzz, xyz, Those things are going to go here, but what we're going to do is we're going to first of all break down what's wrong

With code first

and Then ultimately this is going to present to us the fact that we need to have automated tests

But you need to know how to write tests in general

So we're going to do the most basic form of testing

This is just going to be the fizzbuzz like simple what was the palindrome?

So really not a whole lot is changing here. I just have to change a little bit of the perception or the language around what I'm talking about. Because initially we were talking a lot about guess points and feedback loops. And feedback loops, level 1, 2, 3, x, y, z. I still think it's good for you to be aware of that stuff because we're going to spend a lot more time on it, but if you're just coming in, it might be a little bit overwhelming, as it was for everyone else when we first started doing this in the first pass through.

We're going to do this basic form of testing. There's the guess point level 1 stuff, so I very well might present to you guys a little bit earlier on in the course. In From Code First, where you learn about all the main ideas that we need to implement.

The main ideas,

which are abstraction, feedback, loop, and then the guess points. systems thinking, and then some of the tools, faster, and the ideal developer workflow.

We're also going to have the mindset module is also going to be in there as well. Cause there's some really important stuff around that. 

And this just reminds me, one other thing I want to make sure that we talk about today is abstraction and the feedback loop, which are the two most important mental models of this entire course.

And in terms of just you being a feeling confident in what you're doing, you need to understand these two mental models. And we're going to go into this in a lot of detail throughout the course, but also I'm putting in modules towards the front.

So and we'll talk about that here. So this is. A little bit of the structure that's coming next, so testing basics, guess points, level one, I want you to, at the end of this you need to know how to do what's called programming by wishful thinking, which is really just you applying the art of abstraction.

This is you specifying what, not how. This is just you say, or another way to say this is telling. Not asking, right? It's you saying. Another way to say it, because there's so many ways to say it, is declarative, not imperative,

right? This will make more sense. We need to drill this in, because this is the art of abstraction. Again, the number one skill for you guys as developers is this skill right here. And this is what's going to make you feel really confident as a developer. Just realizing it's all problem decomposition.

So testing basics, right? We'll break that down and then we'll go into the best practices. And

here is where we're going to do the E2E tests. So first of all, E2E testing on the backend. And in order to do this, if you've seen the best practice modules so far on E2E testing on the backend, you'll know that this involves some stuff like using Docker to encapsulate. Infra, there's some other stuff, and then there's E2E testing on the front end to create a walking skeleton, and then we deploy this walking skeleton, and I'm just going to pause here right now.

Why a Walking Skeleton?

Question for you guys, do you guys know what a walking skeleton is, and do you know why we want to deploy it right away?

Minimum automated use case. Very good. Yep, it's an, it's a test from a, let me see what else are you guys saying about that. There's some other ways you can explain it too.

Danny says the least amount of framework to get it going. It's exactly the same thing as a tracer bullet. You got it. Yep, from what's that, the pragmatic programmer, right?

Yeah, it's exactly the same thing as a tracer bullet. Daniel says it's the most bare bones pipeline to get it from local dev to production. At least in a DevOps sense. Yeah, that's another different perception to look at it through. But it is exactly that. We want to get the most bare bones version of something that is valuable to somebody out, shipped, in front of them.

Because again, our goal is to get working software in front of users. Let's make sure that we can at least get across the goal point, right? The worst thing is for you to spend a lot of time doing work on the front end or doing work on the back end, in a silo. Or, even what I'll teach you guys in pattern first is to take a, an approach where you're predominantly doing This is where you're going to spend 80% of your time, by the way, is doing work that's in the application layer, where it's all pure code.

It's very fun code to write, actually, because you don't have to deal with databases or web servers. It just feels like you're writing pure logic. And you could cover a ton of edge cases, and it's really good to write that code. However, I've made this mistake where I used to start there, and I would write all of my code there.

And then I would think about, okay, cool, now let's deploy this. And I try to deploy it, and I connect it to infrastructure and everything's busted and broken. It's like the worst. And there's all these weird CORS errors. Yeah, just like Danny says here, we want to deploy as early as possible. Right?

How Does This Affect The Value Creation System? #theoretical vs #physical

If we think about the whole thing, yet again, it's as systems thinking. Inputs, outputs, model, processes, environments. If we think about the entire system , I called this earlier on, the the value creation system where we want to get all the way over here to the goal.

We start here, and we have to go through all these steps.

Where right here might be deploy, And right here might be like just even getting clear on what the problem is in general, right? So what that does is, and someone else has asked this question too, what this does is it makes things that are a little bit earlier on more theoretical,

Getting more clear on the problem to be solved. And then it makes everything a little bit later on.

More physical. Which is actually us doing the code. It's actually us implementing the feature. And there's this middle point here. Which is when we make this crossover from the theoretical to the physical. And this is the acceptance test.

It's really incredible. But this really truly is when we make that crossover from what to how

is what's going on here. 

This Is Why Acceptance Tests Are So Important 

So we want to make sure that we can get across the goal point. We want to make sure that we can cross this line and we can get over to here where users are happy and users are using our software. So we, all the way across. So that's the goal. That's what we're trying to do here.

It's as a best practice. Let's make sure we could win, right? And deploying is one of the last steps here. And that's why I'm placing such an extreme amount of importance on everyone to make sure that they're writing acceptance tests. We will refine our understanding of what gets done here, 

and by the way, it's not one, two, three, four, five. There's a lot of these different things we need to do. But these kind of little tiny mini systems, I'm, I've drawn out here. These are what I call the guess points. Because these are what are going to answer do we even understand what it is we're building?

This guess point might be the problem one. Is this even something that's valuable? And then this one here might be the architecture. Okay. Will these tools even work?

And it's just a level of descending from just super high level all the way down to the physical level of, okay, it's done, it's deployed, it's in production, and it's working. And that's it. There is one other this might not, I don't think Deploy is not actually the last one. There's one other guess point.

Oops. There's one other guess point I like to refer to.

That's not gonna be in between there, but I call it the the execution guess point.

And in that guess point, what we're doing is, it's gonna go somewhere right in there. Or actually, realistically, it's more over here, because users are using your code. But, the execution guess point is, are we getting the KPIs we want? Are users using the software in the way, ways that we want? Are we making the number of sales that we want?

Are we, whatever it is that we're trying to measure, is that actually happening? And what that does is it flows all the way full circle and it gives us more clarity on what we need to do next. So that's the ecosystem of. What it is we're doing here. Does that make sense?

It really is just all systems and systems thinking and it's one big feedback loop.

Awesome stuff. Okay. Yeah. So let me now just finish off there was a nice little tangent here, but let me just finish off what we're doing in best practices. Deploying the walking skeleton. We're going to do that.

Now, in the process of us doing this, we're going to make a huge mess. We're just going to make it work pretty much, right? But we will make a substantial mess in having that happen. There's two things that are really important at this point. One is for us to make sure that when we deploy code, Again, the goal is working software, so that means software that is void of bugs.

It doesn't have bugs. What we want to make sure that we can do is have a minimal deployment pipeline. So this is going to mean that, let's see if I can draw this out here.

This is something that could be extended on a whole lot. So this is CICD. So the simplest CICD deployment pipeline we could make is we put code in and it deploys and then users are using it, right? However, this code here could be bad. It could be busted. It could be broken, right? So this phase here, what we generally call this, is this is the commit phase.

And this has to do a couple of things.

So the first is, you want to make sure that your code actually follows. A style structure, because everyone might be merging their code into here. So you'll have a number of different devs, one, two, three, four, five. Everyone might merge their code

into source control, and then a commit phase needs to kick off, and what that does is it's going to lint, it's going to build,

and it's going to test,

unit test.

And then if that's good, and by the way these unit tests, these need to give you about 80% confidence.

Now we don't actually have any unit tests just yet. We won't really have any just yet because all we will have been doing is acceptance tests. But these unit tests, they're going to need to get, to give you 80% confidence. So that you know that if these things run. The next phase that we get to here, like there's more in here, but if you get 80% confidence in your test, that means that these tests are going to be really fricking good.

So how could you even possibly have that? This is why we need to have a testing strategy, and this is why we're going to decouple from we will decouple from infrastructure. So that means that you're going to have your. Let's assume this is the back end, you're gonna have your E2E test that covers everything, whoops, input output, so that's good, but also inside of this, you're gonna need to decouple so that you have your tests this is actually a great diagram, let me try this again, I think I'll do it like this,

okay

Let's see, this is going to be your,

whoops, so this is going to be your infrastructure layer,

so that might be your web server, or this might be your database,

this might be the web server,

and what that's going to mean is that this code right here, whoops,

this code right here has to be super pure. And this is what has to give you 80% confidence. How could that be the case? Because this code right here is going to be your application.

And domain.

This is also called core code. This code right here is going to be just the heart of your app. And these tests that we're going to do here, they're going to test that stuff. So we're also going to need to have this. I see there's a question. These tasks get run on the local dev's, on the dev's local machine, right?

With something like Husky or similar? That's an option. It is an option. There's no fully correct or non correct way to do it. You could do it that way. However, it does introduce The possibility that devs could just turn that off and push code into the CI CD and then it just goes and deploys busted code.

So it's better for you to have this be something that runs with GitHub Actions. Something that is a part of your deployment pipeline in general. So this whole concept, this thing here,

this is a deployment pipeline.

I usually do what runs fast, pre commit, and what takes time on CI. Yeah, excellent. Excellent. I think that's good. I've been on projects where we used to do We used to run the E2E tests literally right before you push your code, like pre commit. And oh my god, that was so painful. It would take forever.

And everyone would just turn it off. No one wanted to use it. What would have worked better is to have actually just put that into the CI. However, sometimes it's hard if we're being honest, it is a little bit difficult to create something like this. So that could be a good start, is to just make sure ahead of time we're at least trying to run some tests.

In in a pipeline at at a bare minimum, but those tests might actually just not be able to get done in here. So the ideal, if I'm talking about the ideal is this. So you're gonna commit your code into, let's say, I don't know right? And then what happens is GitHub Actions

is gonna run this phase here, where it's gonna lint, build, test your code. Awesome. And then after that's done, it should just, whoops. After that's done, it should also package this up so that we could use this in the next phases. What are the next phases? Let's try that out.

The next phase is here, is traditionally, this is called the acceptance phase.

So here's where you actually run your E2E tests. Now how is that gonna work? It means you have to deploy to a staging environment.

And then, after you deploy to the staging environment then you run the tests.

Okay, that's a lot of work. This is an entire other environment you need to create. And then afterwards... You have an option here, whether you want to do this manually or you want it to just automatically happen, but then you deploy to production.

So this is like a basic ideal, but you could always add more steps in the middle here, more steps in the middle there. You could do checks, you could do performance testing, you could do all sorts of different things. But if I'm to just think about what it is we want to verify, like what is absolutely necessary, what do we really want here?

First of all in order to answer that, I'm gonna just say, let's come back to the main mental models, which is one,

abstraction,

and two, the feedback loop.

One, I'm gonna say, just be aware, this is never ending. It will never be done. You can always add more and more layers of abstraction. Always. If today, all you have are two ways to get to the goal, that's what you have today, just know that tomorrow, you can improve it. by adding another, and another, right?

What that's gonna do is it's gonna make each of these more focused, and more abstract, of course, and more cohesive,

it will, but it could also make it more complex.

So just know that it's, you could just always continue to improve. That's just the way it's gonna go. And then also with respect to the feedback loop, so how do we decide, like, how, large this deployment pipeline should be. All we got to do is just get to the goal once, feed forward,

get the feedback,

and then we'll just refine.

So those are the two key mental models that we use for the entirety of the course. It permeates everything we're doing. And if you have these mental models, you could apply this to anything in life. So if I apply this to the question of, what do we need for our minimum deployment pipeline?

All we need, really truly, In my opinion, it's just working software.

I will say,

as long as you could deploy,

if you could deploy, and if you can run the E2E tests, and the E2E tests run,

you're good. And you can always improve on top of that. In terms of using Husky, sure, you could do that, but then you just need to make sure and ensure that those E2E tests have been run. There's no right answer, is what I'm trying to say here. But what we're gonna do in the course, I'm not sure if I'm gonna put this here, cause it just might be a little too much, or I'll move it a little bit later on.

What we're 1000% gonna do for sure, is we will deploy, and we will build out the commit phase for certain. We might do the the staging environment now, or we might do that a little bit later on. But we 1000% are going to have those two phases. Are there any questions on that so far?

Or any comments? Anything you guys want to drop in there?

Alright, I think we're good. I think everyone gets it. That's what we're doing here.

E2E testing. Deploy the walking skeleton.

Minimal deployment pipeline. And then we need to clean up our code. We need to improve design.

So we need to learn about design and what that even means and how we can improve it. So Kirill actually Kirill's here. Kirill spent some time and went down a path and did a lot of awesome work for us and just tried different ways to improve the design. Some of the things I really love from his his venture into, hey, look, see, right?

It's the feedback loop. He went in and ventured into here. Some of the things I really love from his exploration into that into that environment and just seeing how things could be better were one, a, using a mono, mono repo

for a number of reasons minimal, right? Simple design. Also, if you guys have seen recently I answered a question in course chat about design. I think it was Brother Dragino, yeah, Dragino asked about DDDforum, the fact that there's a lot of components in there, there's just a ton of files, a lot of typing and I will always bring this up, copy image, as I said before, it's never going to be perfect.

The whole idea of abstraction is it doesn't ever end. You could always go to higher levels and deeper levels of abstraction, but it's very important to be aware of how can you begin to ascertain what is good and what is not good design. The way that you could tell what's good design when you're going a little too abstract, you're going a little too deep into the abstraction, or when there's not enough abstraction, is just always come back to what does the developer want to accomplish?

What does someone else on your team or what do you yourself want to accomplish? And. Are you able to adequately do that or not? This is the seven fundamental principles of design. All designers use this whether they're designing out an apartment, designing out anything that is functional in nature, where there's an actual purpose, there's a purpose to design.

Things need to follow these steps. This is something that happens in your mind. , if you need to go and make a pot of coffee in your hotel room, you're asking yourself, is there coffee here or do I have to go outside? What are my options? Okay, I see that there's a coffee thing here in the apartment.

Okay, so what am I gonna do? So I go over to it and it looks a little bit weird. I don't really understand it, right? But it all starts with what you wanna accomplish. And the key developer use cases, the key things that we want to accomplish most of the time is we just add features. Move features. It's actually add features.

Improve features. And Sorry, it's just adding. And improving. It's pretty much CRUD on features. Add, improve. But in order to do that, we need to discover features. We need to understand them.

Ultimately, the majority of our work that we're doing has to do with features and our ability to understand how to implement them, because that's what we need to do.

I'm going to say change. Add, change, discover, understand. This could be extend as well. So these are like your use cases as a developer going on in your mind.

Let me just come back to this. Maintain code, yeah. Like maintaining code is. is very much making it easy for other developers to do this. So I'm putting this content this is like foundational, right? If you've read through some of the stuff so far, you'll remember that I said something like hold on, I'm just going to draw this over here.

You'll remember that I said that we have a couple of goals as developers. The main goals always start with the goals. I'm not trying to rhyme on you guys, but. The main roles here are we have users, customers, and we have developers, and each of these roles have their own goals. So customers, the main goal, if I'm to summarize what their goal is, summary of the goal for customer is increase revenue

and protect revenue.

Okay, what's the main? Can anyone think of, I've said this before, can anyone remember or think about what the main goal for users might be?

Awesome, that's one, yep. Enriched time, yep, that's another way to say it, from state A to state B. Yep.

It's all just different kind of perceptions of the same thing. Yep. Do their tasks efficiently? Yeah, the way that I like to think about it is a combination of all of that. But I think maybe the most apt way to say it is Let's say enrich time

or get back time.

Those two things. Think about it. Think about why you're you bought the sock you bought. Think about why you listened to or why you bought the ticket to go see I don't know Taylor Swift. Think about why you're using notion, or why you're using some other tool that you use that you chose out of your own accord.

It's always to get back time or to enrich time. This is very valuable stuff, whether you're a an entrepreneur or you're a staff developer. It's very important to be aware of this because no one really talks about it and it's, to be quite honest, like you have to be careful with this stuff. You don't want to get too focused on value because it could turn you into a bit of a weird person.

You don't want to be applying this on everything, so don't apply this to your entire life, but be aware of how it does permeate your entire life. Try to create a container around this, because this is the type of stuff that if you think about a little too deeply, and you make all your life decisions on it, it will certainly turn you into a strange person.

But if we need to understand why we're doing what we're doing as developers, this is the tactical tool to do that. And then for developers, what is your... What is it that you're doing and why? It's to help, it's to help achieve this. Write code such that you could achieve these two other goals for these two other roles.

How would we even say this? So in if you write code where you're, let's say it works.

Let's say it works in the sense that you help this, you help the users do that, and then when you help the users do that, it does that. But let's say it works, and you can't change it.

Okay, so now what happens? It works, but you can't change it. And there's new features, there's new things that need to happen. It starts taking more and more time. to do this, and because it's taking more time to do this, it's actually hurting this. It's actually hurting because it costs money to pay developers to do their work.

So it's this really interesting cycle that gets created here. So if I'm to summarize the way, what it is that we really need to do as developers,

it's to work, use,

whoops. It's to use

architecture, testing,

design, and strategy

to keep

users and customers

in benefit.

These are the four tools. One, two, three, four. These four tools are what are going to give us the ability to do these to have these two things here, right? Because if you don't test, you might produce broken code that, is not going to enrich time. If you don't have a solid architecture, you're not going to be able to write tests in general.

You're not going to be able to reason about where things should go, and developers are going to get confused. If you don't have design developers are going to get confused. Developers aren't going to understand the complexity. conceptual models of, oh, this pattern goes here, that pattern goes there, this pattern does that, this pattern does that.

You're not gonna understand, so you're not gonna be able to do your work effectively, you're not gonna be able to do these things. You guys, this is really complex because it is complex, right? You guys have chosen to understand how to do this well, and this is what's involved.

Yeah, it's, it is pretty hard, not gonna lie it's one of the hardest things I could probably imagine here but what makes it simple, what makes it even me able to help you make sense of this is just saying, here's two or three conceptual models that are gonna make this all make sense, and it really is abstraction, the feedback loop.

And some of these things here. So these are the four tools that are going to keep them in benefit. So if that's the case coming back up to where we were, we need to improve the design because what we had just done at this point in the best practice, best practices, we will have made a pretty big mess, right?

We'll have done some E2E testing, some front end testing, deployed that walking skeleton from UI to database. To a minimum deployment pipeline, and then now it's oh, shit, like, how are we going to add, how are we going to write code moving forward? This is a lot. Yes, it is. So this is where we're going to spend time here in best practices to just think about the design and approve the design of our work so that when we go into the pattern first phase, we could just drop into our work and do that effectively.

One of the best tools for this in order to improve the design. Is what I call the Ideal Developer Workflow. It's to just have clarity on what it is you need to do in general, so that you know the ideal that we're moving towards, and if this is the ideal, by doing XYZ, it's going to take us further away from the ideal, or by doing this, it's going to move us closer to the ideal.

I'll just do a quick recap on what the Ideal Developer Workflow is, how it works. And then we'll continue along here, but the ideal developer workflow is how we want to ideally produce value, how we would ideally like to do our work. And I think about it like this we have to start at a pretty high level with our understanding of the problem, so number one is can we,

Understand the problem, so this is the theoretical,

so understanding the problem, solution, and then two which is going to be architecture. ARs. Geez, this is messy. Sorry, guys. It's the architecture. We need to make sure that everyone is clear on the patterns that we're going to use moving forward. Remember I just said, what's really important? Conceptual models.

This is why if you have never done DDD before and you drop into a DDD codebase, things like value objects, entities, aggregates. You're like, what the hell is that? Same thing, if you drop into a front end codebase, and stuff like view models controllers domain objects, you're like, I don't understand why we're doing this.

I'm just, why can't I just use React hooks? We need to, it doesn't matter you could use those things, and there's gonna be advantages and disadvantages to them. This is a really important step in the ideal developer workflow.

It's a really important step, which is that everyone has clarity on the patterns,

tools. The roles that these, the roles that they play,

and the responsibilities of each of those patterns and tools.

So this could be done a number of different ways. We could do this so many different ways. All that matters is that we understand, because this is for developers. This right here.

Developer understanding.

Whereas up here, is actually a little bit more for the users

and customer.

We're getting a little bit of each in this We're making sure that we hit on everything that we're doing is hitting on stuff that needs to happen for our roles that we know are really important. One, two, three, right? So we get there and then what do we do? Then we set up that test infrastructure and that first test.

That's going to be acceptance.

We set that up. And then. We make that work end to end, so we go here, whoops,

so fail, let's see, pass, factor,

so we're gonna fail that test, actually, you know what, let me move this a little bit here,

I could do this, you guys, I believe in myself, there we go,

yes,

right, we're gonna set up that first test, and then that's gonna make us move in a layer And then we're going to be doing our high value unit tests at this layer. So again, fail.

This is going to be core code. So when I said this, it's going to be core code. So again, that's like this right here. The majority of our work is going to happen in here because it's going to give us 80% of the confidence. This is going to cover all of the edge cases. Because really, we don't want to be testing everything in here, so what's really going to happen is, you're going to have tons of these, that's a mess, but you're going to have a lot of them, right?

And then you do a ton of those, and then finally, this should work. This is going to pass, and then we're done, and then we deploy.

So this is something that that's the first feature, but this is this goes for any feature work that we do, whether it's a new feature existing one. We always want to follow this process here. Because this is going to make our work consistent.

So that's the ideal developer workflow for the most part. And I'm just going to write a couple of quick notes on this right over here. This is going to be 80% of our work.

And this is going to be, it's going to give us 80% confidence. There's also something else we could do after this. So I missed this, which is for, it's good to just tidy up and write infrastructure tests. So this is where we would, really make sure that our database is databasing and our connections to our.

Services are working really nice and well. So I'll teach you some other forms of testing we could do here. Like incoming and outcoming adapter tests. Also called contract tests. Also called just driver tests. There's a few other ones we could do. But just know that this is 80% of the confidence here.

And it's 80% of the confidence because It's it's the core. It's the app. It's the value. It's the thing that we've been asked to do, but it's just damn I wish all, this is all we had to do because it feels great writing these tests. It's just, it's pure and it's it's fun, but alas, we have the whole real world around us and things need to connect to stuff and things often make messes.

One image I'm going to pull up if no one's seen it thus far. Yeah. Is this one? It's one of my favorite images I've ever made. Hold on. The image. What's this one here? I'm just

gonna come back to the course. Chat. It's systems thinking, which is the keyed mental model. One of the it's pretty much the feedback loop and abstraction design. But, yeah, like right here we're gonna have a ton of features in level 2. Level 3, 2, 1. This right here, if I was to just draw something around this.

Let's just see if I can do that. Nah, it doesn't really draw nicely.

This is the core code for the most part.

I would probably also draw a boundary. Right here. But that's the, where all the value is, right here. And this is just annoying stuff we need to do in order to... Get our like our code to work with the real world needs to talk to the real world. But this is where if we could just do that and just say, Hey, the code does that great.

But it does need to connect. So we're going to write exponentially more tests here than we will here. And then we won't, we'll hear. And then we will hear. So hopefully that makes sense. So here, I'm just going to write this.

And for example, I'll give you concrete examples of what this might be. So this could be

e2e test more with, let's say, react, right? Or maybe also if you're using react, you just want to make sure that your, let's say, drag and drop library works properly.

I would classify that as a,

this is what we call an outgoing.

Adapter.

I'm sorry, outgoing info.

And then maybe on, let's say, the backend, we want to just test, verify I don't know let's just say the database is still returning data in the shape that we want it to return in. I would call that also a contract test.

To verify let's say, crud.

There's also another one we could do, which is like, what about the API? Like sometimes the API changes, like if you guys are building public APIs. Yeah. Sometimes you guys change the routes. Sometimes the structure of what is allowed to go in changes a little bit. It's incredible to have a test for that, right?

You can call that an API test. Some call that an incoming adapter test, right? I think it's some call it a driver test, so I like to just call it incoming. And

you see how we have all these strange names for tests? The way that I simplify all of this is just systems thinking. We have level 6, incoming. We have level 5, system, end to end. We have level 4, which is like outgoing. We have level 3, app. Level 2, stateful. Level 1, stateless. If you just really think about it and just recognize, hey man, it is just all inputs and outputs, this thing that we're doing.

It's featured decomposition is just, if I need to make sure that somebody is able to register to, let's say it's Instagram, I could register to Instagram, I could add a friend and they can accept a friend request. What's going on here is it's, start, and Register to Instagram, add friend, or follow someone.

Actually, let's say it's actually Facebook, right? Register to Facebook send friend request, accept friend request, get notification. Alright, those are like, the steps to go from A to B. All that really needs to happen here is this is the most high level what.

And then deep down here are all the tiny little hows.

What's one else that's safe?

Yeah, love it. So we just want to do this, right? But what's going on here is we have vertical slices of functionality. This is a whole ass feature. Boom. Feature. Or use case. Use case. Use case. We're down here. What do we got? Those might be... Database. What's going on up here?

Up here. What's going on? Web server. Or just like API.

So this is called vertical slicing. It's one of the various essentials that we talk about. And then right in the middle, I should have chosen a different color because I actually like to use the yellow color for the domain.

Infra. Infra infra.

Yeah, exactly. And of course, we could Decompose this into many different layers. And there are many different layers, but that's fundamentally what's going on here. So that's how I think about it. That's how we connect what from how, and how's the feedback loop? Like, where's the feedback loop here?

If I do register can I even talk to the, someone makes a request? Are they, is the request even going to hit the web server? Will the web server even get it?

Will the server,

server gets request? Who knows? And that's why we test. Same thing here. All the way through. Who knows if these things will work or not. And that's why we test, to make sure that these things actually work. What do you guys think of this these mental models? Is this helpful? This is just how I think of this.

Yeah, vertical slice. Okay, cool. I see there's a question, two questions in here. We commit each when each test passes, do we push once the feature is done? Yeah, that's a good question. I've seen a number of different strategies for this. I don't know, I'm curious to hear what other folks think in terms of that.

You could do your own branch and have a feature branch. And you could continually be pushing to that branch and running your commit tests in that feature branch. And then you could merge to trunk. So that's one strategy. I think, I'm curious to hear what Kirill thinks, because I know Kirill does this as well.

But yeah there's a few different ways we could do this.

What do you think about this strategy? E2E test is the happy path, high value acceptance test, everything else. Yeah, I think it's great. I would probably chuck in maybe like happy path, maybe one or two sad paths for the E2B test. I think that's covering really good ground. Because, let's just be honest, sometimes you're gonna see error messages.

Let's make sure that error messages show up and present to develop, like to users in an effective way on the screen. I think that would be really good. And then, you might do two or three of those, and like literally 12 to 15, sometimes 20. Different high value acceptance tests and if you design them correctly using the stuff that we've been talking about before with doing the when we were doing the basic unit testing, the stateless ones, and I was saying, you want to always use concrete examples, at that point It's pretty solid, pretty good, because then all you have to do is just use parameterization and toss in just like a ton of test data and just make sure you get the correct result.

So it would just be as easy as, oh, I want to add a couple more tests. Let me just add in literally 20 more units of data to make sure that this really tests the code properly. So it can get to a level where I think we have it work really well.

And those tests would run super fast because it's all pure. Will we cover that parameterization? So we have gone over parameterization in the in the, I believe, which module was that in? I think it was in the emergent one, but I could definitely make it more evident. Because I think it was just a tip I introduced.

But it's a really great technique. Yeah, no worries. It's, this is also course design stuff. It's you know how we talk about package by feature, patch, package by component, package by infra? I want to make sure that if you guys want to find something, you could just pretty much control F and find it.

So that means that there might be more modules or more videos, more lessons, but there it is again, abstraction. What is really the best way to do it? Love it.

Yeah, those are some of my main thoughts on this here. What else is really important to talk about before we split? So this is what's coming up for best practices. We're moving in this direction. So we're going to improve the design. We're going to do some monorepo stuff. There's some other things we're going to have to talk about as well, like how I even come to decide where things should belong.

Krill also laid out a really good technique for us to Where to put shared code. So we're going to put shared code in a shared package if you use npm workspaces. Which is great because we often have to share DTOs. You could even share domain objects between the front end and the back end using that.

And real quick, what I'll do here is I'll just drop in if you want to see where that is. We actually do have a branch where whoops, that's going to be in the new DDD. See how we've done this thus far.

I do have to record some demos. It chuck up the lessons for you to take a look at it. But I think you should definitely take a peek at this code here. I'm really happy with it. I think we've done a great job. Krill's done a great job here. So this is the shared package. There's some shared stuff in there.

And also went a little bit overboard, and I did a lot of stuff that I wanted to introduce to you in the pattern first phase particularly around the patterns that we're using, because if I show you how some of this works, we're doing this pretty purely, we're not using Redux, or we're not using React context for global state.

Instead, what we're doing is we're just Using the observer pattern, just keeping it clean, keeping it clear. So here, look, what would be a good thing to show you? Probably

this is one thing I do want to actually take out having to like having to use hooks, by the way, my God, it really forces you to just completely mangle your code. So what I would do here is I would actually extract this out and just have a routing service. Is to not have to use this thing. But here, what I want to show you is a registration form view.

No, not domain objects. This is a good one.

Yeah. So registration form is like a domain object. It's going to be something we use to determine if we should perform an operation or not. So that's pretty apt. And then let me just pop up and go into the shared. I do want to show you persistence, how we're doing this global state right here. This is pretty much no Redux, no React context.

This is it. This is, however many lines of code this is your global state. And the way that I designed this out was just programming by wishful thinking. I said, what is it that we probably want to have happen? If I go back to the user repo.

This is where the work is done. This is synonymous to a use case in Domain Driven Design on the backend, with use cases and using aggregates and stuff. We just say, take in a registration form, if the registration form is, actually we're not validating it here, but we just take that in, and we create a DTO, we send it to the backend, and then we just save it to the cache.

And this is how I've decidedly chosen to do that here. Pretty easy. Alright, cool. I'm just trying to keep in mind how to break down work that needs to be handed over to a QA person. Increment value. Ah, QA. Huh. That's an interesting one. Let's see what Kirill says. A QA person should be driven by your task board, I would say.

A ticket might touch multiple code bases and can lead to multiple increments. Ticket should be an entry point in a log of work done for everyone. That's nice. Yeah, honestly I don't really, With respect to QA, The division of responsibilities is interesting there, I'm not even really sure. QA I guess does like a lot of manual testing, I would hope.

Just taking a look at everything you've done. And just give you feedback. It's just like a feedback loop for them, right?

And then RiskyBiscuit, yeah, I found it harder to test the controller when hooks live inside it. Yeah, hooks are just the worst. I actually hate that API so much. Don't tell me I need to name things with use in front of it. When I first came out, I was so upset. I'm like, no. I was working at Apollo, and they were, I think they Apollo had just made some sort of hooks.

They started going down the hooks path too. I'm like, you guys, no. This is a mess. This is a mess. So yeah let me grab this and paste this in here for you guys to take a peek at.

Okey dokey, good stuff. Let's see. What else do we got? Date if not today. I'm trying to get this done today actually. I want to put out an update, make sure everyone's clear on where we're at. And just put up the front end videos where I have them so we can finish this off. But this is what's coming next. I just really want to get to the pattern first stuff.

Cause I think that's, what's going to be really interesting. That's when we get to get into the front end patterns and the back end patterns and writing those high value unit tests. So yeah, it looks good. We talked about all that stuff there. Does anyone else have anything they wanted to chat about? Or hop on the mic and just chit chat for a bit. Maybe we'll hang out for max 10 more minutes. If there's nothing else you guys want to chat about.

Invite. Yes. You're live.

Yo.

Mhm. We're starting to break things inside into like just, for example, separating the use cases. And doing the, what you call the high value tests. Yep. And the feeling that the developers get is that since they are mocking everything like the entry of the use case and the infra. Yep. Sometimes they say that we feel that we're not testing anything actually.

We're just testing what we make into the test. Awesome. So how true And what is the argument to that? I love this question. This is one of my favorites. So the question, if I can understand this correctly, is you guys are going, you guys are doing these high value unit tests where you're mocking stuff out.

Let's say the unit test is let's say, I don't know, like create user and you're mocking out the user repo, for example. Yes, the question is, wait, what are we really testing here? It seems like we're just mocking this thing. Why? Why bother? So here's how I like to think about it. Let me just see if I can get some drawings here.

Man, I love this question. So again, a testing strategy, number one is going to test multiple different things. It's not going to cover one particular answer. Okay. It's not going to cover everything. It needs to be used with other types of tests for it to really be valuable. When we decide to do high value unit tests, if I'm to draw out, let me just see.

Yes, okay, great. Let's just draw out the execution of a a vertical slice. So we have the outgoing, or sorry, the incoming. We have the system. And then the system is going to talk to, let's say the application, the application and we have domain and then we have the outgoing and then we have let's just draw that to be the that's the outgoing again, let me just see here, so here we have domain and let's say here we have use case actually, you know what, the best way to do this is probably like this.

Domain use case

repo

and then server, right? Let's assume this is a command. Boom. Okay? So a feature's gonna go like that. This is what's gonna happen, right? With respect to your repo here, right? So you're gonna mock that out. Again we're dealing with, ah shit, actually I want to draw it like this. Here's a better way.

I just, this just came to me right now. Here's the best way to draw this. Let's, you have your use case.

And it's a system like this. Remember, everything is inputs and outputs, systems. Now if you've done the, if you've done the stateless tests, you'll remember that the stateless test They are very basic. Just examples, yeah. Yeah, they're very basic. Input outputs. They're functions, right? And functions are super easy to understand because you just have palindrome.

What's the... Is this a palindrome? Mom? Yes, it is. True. Okay, good. Boom. Easy to get, right? Now... This is such a simple example, but this is everything. I'm telling you, this is the simplest example and it's everything. We're doing this every single place. Because if you back up and you come back to the idea of guess points, and you remember that it's all just guess points, it's all inputs and outputs, what we need to do here is, we need to figure out, okay what is it that we're testing here in the use case?

Because this is application.

What are we actually testing? What are we actually verifying? What is the model here that we want to confirm is correct? Or is incorrect? And then it also introduces to us another question of how can we verify that the stuff that this uses is correct as well? The palindrome is great because it's pure.

It's just this is the data. The data goes in and the data goes out. So we could verify with what we call what is this called? This is called a direct input, right? It's a string in a Boolean out. When we're using use cases, though, we introduce the concept of indirect inputs and indirect outputs, okay?

Here's what I mean by that. Indirect inputs and indirect outputs, you know about dependency inversion, right? Yes. Okay, so what we do here is, let's imagine that, I'm going to get rid of this word, when we set up a use case, we set it up with something,

we're going to set it up with dependencies,

whoops, let me just zoom in, and let's say one of those dependencies that we're hooking it up with is a repo,

right, let's say another one is a we don't actually want to do this, Let's just make it one. Let's just make it one of these. So I'll just take this and Just

make it one to make this simple.

So this is an indirect input. This is going to get used in a certain way.

So we still want to verify. Okay, imagine this is createUser.

The question is what do we want to verify? What matters? Okay what matters is the success. And failure. Results.

So that's important to us. And this is why we have something called Result Verification. There's three different types of verification we could use. We could use Subject. We could use Result. Or, sorry, we could use Result. We could use Communication. What was the other one? I can't even remember it right now.

But, What was it? Yeah, State Verification. Those three. So here, we're going to do result verification on success, failure, results. If the user already exists, what are we going to do? We want to ensure that we get an already created result. That's what we want to verify. Boom, goes in, and we get a already created result.

So that's going to be a failure. We want to verify that. Now, we can write all of these tests in just Verify. See you later, Danny. Thanks for coming out. See you next time, my brother. We can verify that we get a particular result just by looking at the result. However, we can go a little bit further to also verify that the repo is getting changed or saved or not saved.

It's getting called. Is a state change happening against this? Are we... Are we actually performing a state change or not performing a state change in this scenario? Because if we know that it's a failure to do already created, and let's imagine that we tried to save to the repo if we did already created, that should be bad.

We should not like that. So if the results that we're going to get for this scenario of, okay given a user, given the user was already created, when we try to create that user, If that user given a user was already created, when we try to create that user I should see an already created response, and the repo should not have been attempted to have been saved.

We shouldn't have tried to save to the repo. So that's one thing we're trying to test here, which is success and failures, and to make sure that the state of We're not trying to make state changes to the repo. Now that doesn't quite answer the question about mocking. So if I'm just to quickly summarize here the types of like how this should really work.

You want to do this high value unit test, but you also wanna do something called contract tests. So do you know what contract tests are? Is it the incoming outcoming? Yes, it is. Yeah, it is. But there's something that's amazing about this that most people aren't aware of. It's gonna feel like you're not really actually testing anything realistically or usefully when they dive, like the thing that you pass into mock here so you might pass in like a mock user repo or a fake user repo.

It's going to feel like you're not actually testing this thing correctly, or that oh, I don't know if this is actually going to work in production for real, once I do it for real. It's going to feel that way when you don't have a contract. Here I'll get, I'll try to explain this here. When we decouple from infrastructure, say we have the app layer here and this and domain.

Alright, so we have the app layer here and we have the domain. When we're going to decouple, what we're going to do is we're going to define an interface

for the user repo.

And then this is going to, rely directly on that. It's going to use that, right? However, you're going to have a fake or in memory repo. You're gonna have a prod one.

You might have some other one as well. Who knows. You could have a MongoDB one, a XYZ one. And this is going to implement, this is going to implement. The problem you're facing is probably that you are you're testing your use cases. You're testing this stuff here. One, two, three features.

And maybe you're testing this separately, but the problem is when you're doing that and this code relies on, it's relying on that and you don't really have what we call test parity. So you don't have parity between these two things. Between

and I'm going to just show you a code example so it will all click in a moment here. You don't have parity between 1 and 2. So it's your app is using this fake one, but when you go into production you're using this prod one, but your your tests, you're not really testing this at the same time as you're testing like this.

So what you want is, you want a sort of test that is going to test all of these at the same time.

And what's going to happen is, if any of these fail, So if you're going to test that you can save, that you can get from the database, that you can check by email, however you're testing both of these, you want to make sure that you're testing the contract, which is, you're testing all of these can do what a user repo should do, and you're testing them all at the same time.

So if one of them breaks, they all break.

So I'll show you what that might look like in code. Figma driven development. So let's see a test. Let's call this let's say this file is userrepo. ispec. I like that for integration tests. ts. And we're going to describe. Oops, this is all technical.

And let's say userrepo.

What are you going to want to do here? So let's just say it can add users to db.

Make this larger, longer. It can save users.

How would you do this for one? Let's say you had the user repo. You would do save and you would save some data, right? Of some sort, so let's say user and fill this in, right? Save that. And then, what would you want to do? Whoops. If you could save, and then let's make this, it, oops, I've done this a little bit wrong.

Yeah, I've done that wrong, oops.

So boom, save, and async. And then what would you do, you'd say fetched user. So this is, let me clear that. The fetched user, let's say is equal to userRepo. getById.

And then you'd expect that user.

getUserId to equal,

fetchUserId,

to be true, right? This makes sense so far, right? Yeah. Alright, beautiful. So we got that. So you're going to want to expect that. But what, I'm just doing this for one, and what is this user repo anyways? Where did I get that from? Here's what we're going to do. We're not gonna just have one. We're gonna have this.

Let all user repose,

you see where I'm going with this? Beautiful. There it is. And you just run this for each.

That's right on point because Yes, the, one of the arguments is what if I'm mistaken on my mark issue? Exactly. Issue. . Yeah. Yep. That's it. And this is why I don't use just mocks really. So I don't use those like mo little mocks that you create, like using the library themselves. I just use that for like tiny little stubs.

If I need to just I just need this thing to just not need anything, I'll use that when I need to just quickly make, fill in some some arguments. But I know it's not really important. Not really gonna be used. Example might be like, oh, this thing needs a logger. I'm like, all right, here, just take this, but when you're actually dealing with anything that's going to require a state change, right? Because these things here are indirect inputs, right? The state that these things are in is gonna affect the production. It's gonna actually affect the use case. If this thing is in a state where it has 30 users...

In one of them is the user that you're going to test. You actually need to make sure that when you set these things up properly, right? But if you are If you are yeah, like those things are indirect inputs because they'll just affect your tests. So you want to make sure that you set up all of these effectively in the same place in these tests.

So this is going to create that level of test parity because you have them all here. So you do something for one, you do something for all of them, because you're testing the contract, not the implementation. Contract is what we're testing. Right there. Makes sense, right? Yes, and now my question What if I have some complex repo that relies on some aggregations and the query in itself would be So hard to implement just for a test.

Can you give me like an example? I have a repo that contains a find method with filters pagination and I want to test this. How, should I implement a DB engine in my mock? Yeah, this is a great question. I'm curious to hear what Kirill thinks, but my thought here is, can you decouple all of that work?

Can you make the complexity of what it is that you actually need to use in order to filter? Can you pull that out and have that something that you could just test and verify yourself instead of needing that to live within the the tool? That's one option. Another option is you. Yeah, you just write it like tests for that.

So you create the scenarios where you're going to have to verify that. But just notice when you're doing duplicate work, and then abstract that out into something else and create a contract for the

for the actual filtering stuff. It's this is going to show you really quickly, if you try to do this against everything, it will show you where you're Oh, yeah. If you're going way too deep into one level of abstraction, you should probably pull that out. If I just draw this again, This is a little more abstract, because I haven't done that in particular, I can't see it myself, so I'm just giving you ways to think about it, but Again if I have this one abstraction here, and I have this other abstraction here, And whoops.

Let's say I have, both of these are gonna get me to the same goal. So this is your broad one,

and this is your fake one.

If, in order to get from here to here, you have to go and do tons of stuff down here, all of this level of abstraction.

But with the fake, you only have to do that,

that, that. Maybe not even. It begs the question okay, all of this abstraction you're doing is this just specific to is this, for example, this is firebase, is this just like firebase stuff? Is this just firebase stuff in particular? Or can we just say, all right look at all of this.

Maybe this stuff here is its own subdomain of a problem. Maybe this is actually, we'll call this subdomain. Search. Maybe this needs to get cut out from where it is here and put into its own contract, right? So I would draw, maybe this needs to stuff, like its own abstractions. And then what happens is, these here actually just use it.

So then, when you want to test if this stuff is working properly,

You have more options. You could just test this stuff independently. So you write your own test against, whoops. Write your own test against this. And then you're in the same situation again. So I would always I think what Kirill's about to get to here, I just want to read through this. Often devs try to implement a filter to satisfy all possible use cases, but in fact lots of filters can be simplified and abstracted.

Also, there are a number of in memory implementations that you could leverage as a basis for your dev repos, and that support different filters. So you can build you can build on top of them. I think it should be fine until you cover everything with contracts. Yeah, so this is really awesome. Contracts are just going to tell you what it is that you actually need.

It's such an abstract thing to think about, because, this is abstraction. But, if I can see your code, it would probably tell me Yeah, a lot of this stuff here doesn't actually need to be getting done. I would say next steps for you, if I'm to give you concrete advice now. Flipping into concrete advice, I'd say, One, find the concrete use cases you actually need.

I hear you have a lot of complex filtering XYZ. Two, find concrete. Maybe I didn't express the fact that these filters is to delegate the heavy lifting of search to the tool, which is the DB. But I think, yes, I might test in also an external tool, which is not good also, yeah, exactly. Oh, I see what you're saying. So if you're going to be testing an external tool, yeah, test the contract. Again. Just test the contract let the external tool do the external tooling. If you want to test something that's going to Be implemented in different ways by different tools That's fine, but focus on the high level make sure that if the high level works because it's again It's input output if you can specify what it is you want and it's the correct level of specificity and it returns the data you need Doesn't matter all this low level stuff.

It doesn't matter As long as it works for both you're good

Feedback loop. Systems thinking. Inputs, outputs. Yeah. I think another way I would just draw this to you is just, I love this one. You just said that. I'm thinking this. Oops.

This is your fake. This is your prod. This goes in, out. This might be like All kinds of crazy stuff. Doesn't matter, it's just a crazy model. And this one is just a guy. Doesn't matter. As long as you get what it is you need on the output. Oops, that's red. That's confusing. As long as you get what you need on the output, and you get what you need on the output, I think you're good.

You can have a complex model. But if you want to just verify, you just give it more examples.

It's really is the examples here.

This is systems thinking. So I actually really love this like mental model. One thing I'm thinking about as well is I'm going to do some work on my my marketing websites. My ads and whatnot. And when you're going to do anything like that, you have to ask yourself if something's working, generally, you don't want to change it.

So if you're going to. If I want to improve something or make sure that it all works, what I'm going to do here is I'm going to add more funnels, I'm going to add more more ads but if I want to improve and see if things are going to work better, if I can make more sales on different types of ads, I don't have to change what's happening inside, all I really have to change is just make sure I can get to the result I want.

So as long as you're getting to the result that you want, you're good. Like you could change whatever it is you need to change here. So that's actually a little bit confusing. Maybe you have to structure that a little bit differently, but I'll leave it there. Do you know what you're doing here with this?

Is that a question? Yeah, do you do you know what it is you need to do with your your filter stuff? It's just. Yeah, yeah. First of all the party concept was really valuable. Okay. Yeah. That's the first answer that I got. And the second thing is Go check if I'm not testing MongoDB or something.

In that case, I should not be bothered with it. And if it's let's say a logic that should belong in its own domain, then maybe abstract it away, test it in separation. Awesome. Awesome. Yeah. Great summary. Great summary. Yeah. Raise the level of what it is you're... Raise the level of abstraction of what it is you're looking at to test.

Yeah, maybe not MongoDB. Maybe just test the concept of the user repo itself. Aha, that's it. I love it. All right. Thank you. You got it. You got it. Yeah, man. I've been meaning to get to this stuff, but you see the way I designed the course out initially, it was like, we're getting to it in this weird way.

Now I'm just like, you'll blast me with your questions and let's just get to it now. And we'll structure it out cleanly and nicely later. So yeah, I love that topic. Cool. Thank you for everything. You're very welcome. My friend. I'm very happy to have you here. Let's keep it going. In terms of delivering on all this stuff in here.

As for the Q and a, I think we're good. You guys, if anyone else has anything else, you guys know where to find me. I'm going to hop on out of here. I'm going to jump into the what do you call it? Community crafters for just a moment. And yeah, with that said, you guys, I'll see you soon.

Woohoo! Later gents! 